>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
let's give it a shot and try it out.
We're gonna hit the record button,
hit double sizes a few times,
>> Steve Kinney: And
you can see we've got
these screenshots here.
And I see these like jumps of purple.
>> Steve Kinney: If we look
we can see what happens.
So we've got the click event,
recalling a function,
we'll take a look at it in a second.
We've got this for
each double width but then,
the real kind of culprit is down here.
When you see a bunch of stuff repeating,
that's not great.
And if you look, recalculate style layout,
recalculate style layout, recalculate
style layout, a whole bunch of times.
Like we kind of just, I did a preamble
here saying layout, not great.
I mean, you can see this
frame took 48.7 milliseconds,
which is well past the 16 milliseconds
that we're aiming for, right?
This was 21 frames a second, not 60.
Right, so
because we are recalculating style layout,
recalculating style layout so much,
that's usually where the big culprit here.
And then finally, we even had to do
a garbage collection in the middle there.
That's where the browser goes ahead and
tries to reclaim some memory
to get some stuff done.
We can look at this,
we know that we have a problem.
The big question is what is our
problem and what do we do about it?
So if we flip over and
look at the code,
>> Steve Kinney: We
can see this is a pretty like innocuous
piece of code, right, like okay, like go
get me the elements, make an array out of
them so I can use for each cuz I'm lazy.
And just double their width, right?
But it seems like we've
got some kind of problem.
What I could try to do is
kinda change this code.
So here's how I might
consider refactoring it.
In here, I will go ahead and
I'm gonna see if I can figure out
the widths of all of them first.
I'm gonna figure out all the widths first
and then I'm going to update all of them.
We'll see if that has any effect.
Let me get rid of this double width row
in a second, but let's go ahead and
lets, it'll even be technically more code,
right, everyone is like don't loop through
stuff twice, that's a waste you know what,
I don't need to be told what to do.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll get the boxes, and
like all the bosses, the boxes and
we'll map over them and like go ahead and
get me an array of all of the widths.
Let's get that out of way first,
so we can see,
so cool give me an event of set with.
Despite how many years I've been
teaching and teaching programming,
I still can't type correctly when
people are looking at me, and
it's never gonna change so here I am.
So then we'll go through all the boxes,
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll for
each over them.
And for each actually takes two arguments.
It'll take the thing you're iterating over
and it actually takes three arguments.
It'll also take the index
that it's currently on.
So, zero, one, two, three,
four, until it gets to the end.
I guess, I should tell you what the third
thing is since I mentioned it takes three
and it's not important.
Is the third argument is
the entire array itself.
So the boxes array.
If anyone has questions on why
does it do that, I don't know.
So, we got the boxes,
we go through each of them and
then we'll say element
dot style dot width.
And we'll go ahead and we'll say go
get wherever you were in the array.
Multiply that by two.
And set it like that.
>> Speaker 2: Did you mean
boxes down to add on line ten?
>> Steve Kinney: Yep, I was probably
too busy thinking of how I was gonna
make a comment that I can't type in front
of people and caused that problem myself.
All right, so let's go check it out.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll go ahead,
we'll open up our tools,
let's do another recording.
I is not defined, let's go fix that.
>> Steve Kinney: Stop
the recording while we do that.
>> Steve Kinney: Call
it index both places.
>> Steve Kinney: Go back to the full page,
yeah, stay and save.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
let's try it again now.
Go ahead and we'll record.
>> Steve Kinney: And
if we take a look, we can see,
let's find the place
where they first double.
Go, kinda zoom in there.
>> Steve Kinney: And
there's a lot less happening.
The whole thing happens even though
I'm looping over everything twice now,
the whole thing happens in
about 13.2 milliseconds, right,
like that's a lot less.
And you can see the most important part
is I don't have all of those purple
little bars, not like why is this fast?
Because I did less stuff, right, I didn't
do this thing repeatedly of checking
layout, recalculating style,
checking layout, recalculating style.
The only big difference with my code is
that instead of checking each one for
its width and then adjusting it,
I got all the widths first and
then I adjusted all the widths.
All right, does anyone remember that large
slide I had with all the reasons and
one of them was calculating the styles,
right, causes a reflow.
The simple act of like,
trying to figure out the size of something
causes the browser to reflow the page,
and so
I was paying that cost by checking,
updating, checking, updating.
So let's talk a little more
about what's going on there.